welcome good crowd today so that's me
I work in DTS and today we're going to
be talking about a number of Mac OS 10
solutions for graphics for games rather
than go through kind of a dry boring you
know line-by-line overview the API we're
going to cover some particular topics
that are of interest to game developers
both some traditional problems and some
things you might want to think about as
you're moving to Mac OS 10 we're gonna
talk about display management that's
always a big problem how to change the
screen resolution how to change the
bit-depth
refresh rate those kinds of things we're
going to talk about mixing core graphics
with quick-draw some of you may be full
screen apps maybe not but some apps may
want to start using some of the core
graphics api's perhaps to draw some
eddie alias text or some other things
like that some of the advanced path
features we'll talk about how to mix
that with some existing quick-draw code
I'm gonna cover a few quick-draw tidbits
some other things about differences with
quick-draw on Mac OS 10 versus Mac OS 9
another topic tear-free bleeding we're
going to talk about what you can and
can't do on Mac OS 10 and how to improve
that and some changes to OpenGL OpenGL
is a little bit different mostly we've
added a bunch of new features for 10 and
then we're also going to cover probably
in more detail in some of the other
sessions because this is the first one
we're going to cover the games roadmap
for WWC this year with that in mind
we're not gonna really be covering much
about quick-draw I'm assuming you either
know what you need to know or you can
find it we're not going to cover
QuickTime in detail there's some other
sessions on that I'm also not going to
go through a general introduction to
core graphics there are a number of
other sessions at this conference for
that and there are four more opengl
sessions so i'm not really going to
cover much beyond some real basic Mac OS
10 stuff for that so let's get into the
display management as many of you know
Duras brockett's been around for a while
it works great on Mac OS 9 we've
included it in Mac OS 10 it's available
for you to use we've primarily put it in
there for easy pouring the number of
you have existing apps existing games
that already used the draw sprocket API
and we've got it in Mac OS 10 so you can
bring that code over almost directly it
is callable from CFM and mock oh so you
don't have to worry about going through
CF bundle api's or anything like that to
get to it from CFM one thing that is a
bit different though for some of you
that we're used to putting up a window
on top of draw sprocket to just draw
into that window to do your graphics on
Mac OS 10 you can't bring the window up
on top of draw sprocket anymore so if
you had been bringing a window up now
you just need to get the front buffer
and draw straight into that it's a
pretty standard see graph pointer not
too hard to do another thing is we've
removed some API is like the user select
context which used to let the user
select the display so all of the gooey
stuff is pretty much gone out of drawer
sprocket now the new API on Mac os10 for
doing display management is called CG
direct display and that's part of core
graphics you'll find it in under the
application services umbrella framework
and it lets you do a number of different
things that you would expect you can
enumerate displays you can enumerate the
available video modes for a given
display you can capture displays so that
you'd control them completely you can
switch the video modes on those displays
and you can also if you really need to
get access to screen memory directly and
I'll show you some code on how to do all
of these things so first of all the
numerating displays you have an array of
dissed by DS of you know you say you
want to cover at least say eight
displays or so you get the active
display list so it gives you a list of
the display IDs for each display that's
active on the system and it also returns
you the actual number of displays you
found if you didn't get an error you can
then iterate through that array and look
at each display in turn once you get a
display ID what can you do with it well
you can find out a few things about it
as well you can find out pixels wide
pixel high those kinds of things find
out the number of bytes per row always
very useful
once you've captured a display you can
also get the base address this is the
direct access I was talking about before
but it's important to note this is only
valid for a captured this boy once
you've captured it the window server
pretty much gives you control over it
until you release it once you release it
you can't draw directly to its bits
anymore so keep that in mind you can
also once you get a given display ID you
can ask it what the available modes are
so when you get ready to switch you want
to find out what modes does it support
CG display available modes will return
you a CF array ref and then provide that
that's not null you can find out the
number of modes that the display
supports and then loop through each of
those modes that array is actually an
array of CF dictionaries and each
Dictionary describes one of the
available modes so what can we do with a
mode dictionary glad you asked
for each mode you can get a number of
different values the CG director spoi
header CD direct display H describes in
fairer detail what you can get out of
that dictionary some things you can find
out whether that mode is actually usable
for aqua as you know aqua doesn't like
to run in 640x480 doesn't like to run an
8-bit this will tell you whether or not
that display mode supports aqua and here
we just set a string you can also get
pretty much any particular key the keys
are listed mat header and find out the
numeric value so you can find out
refresh rate you can find out bit depth
with those kinds of things once you've
gone through your modes that are
available for a given display presumably
you pick one say you need 1024 by 768 by
16 bit you found the mode that
identifies the one you want now we need
to switch to it well in order to be able
to switch back easily you can get the
current display mode see and that gives
you a dictionary ref that you can use to
restore the mode later then you capture
the display and once you've captured it
you've got control over it as I
mentioned then you can switch to
whatever best mode you've decided you
want to use
you can also hide the cursor now the
ordering of these three captures switch
and hide the cursor is somewhat
important if you switch the mode before
you capture then the other apps in the
system get a chance to notice that
you've changed the display and if you
remember draw sprocket on nine and some
of the other mode changing API is things
like finder icons used to move around to
those kinds of things if you capture the
display first then nobody notices things
should move around on you at all and
hiding the cursor is just whether you
want the curse was still visible during
all this some people may want to hide it
then capture them switch and once you've
gotten all this done
you've got the dist way to yourself and
your game code here if you need to get a
see graph pointer to do quick draw
operations you want to copy bits to this
display whatever you can use an API
create a new port for cg display ID this
api is actually in the quick-draw header
so don't go looking for it in the core
graphics editor you won't find it and if
you do create a port this way don't
forget to call dispose port when you're
done because as create might employ it
does create a new one and you're
responsible for releasing it once you're
done with your game you need to shut
down and you pretty much reverse the
order the operations that we did earlier
you put the cursor back you switch back
to the original mode on that display and
then you release the display to give it
back to the system pretty
straightforward stuff so now I'd like to
show you a quick demo these are actually
some little demos written by one of our
core graphics engineers but they
illustrate the point pretty well the
first one is mode this is already up on
our sample code website and all it does
is use some of the code we've described
to go out and simply ask what display is
available what modes does it support as
you can see here currently we're running
1024 by 768 by 32 bits 30 Hertz and it
supports a number of different things
and this is also listing for you whether
or not that particular mode supports
aqua or not so this is a good piece of
code to look at especially if you're not
too familiar with
arrey ref and see if dictionary ref and
how to manipulate those this code has a
very nice simple structure to go through
those that's one nice for the one and
then to give you a brief example of
drawing directly to the screen this one
called color bars it shows you how to
just draw straight to that base address
very simple little demo and here we're
just capturing this display switching it
into a mode drawing some and switching
back nothing too complicated there so
moving back to the slides and as I
mentioned both of those demos are
already up on the sample code side if
you'd like to go take a look at them so
along with this point management comes
palette manipulation and gamma tables
and for this you combine the cg direct
palette AP on a CG direct display API if
you want to be able to create palette to
manipulate them switch palettes and also
many Pro at the gamma tables I'll give a
display
so creating palettes has a number of
different options you can create a
default one you can create it for a
given display with a given capacity with
some samples you already provide and I
believe those are float samples and
there's also one for convenience
function you can create it directly with
bite samples and then of course you have
to release those once you're done with
them with CG palette release for
manipulating them you can get a
particular color you can get the index
for a given color you can set the color
to a particular index you can compare
palettes directly you can also create a
new palette from an old pallet blended
with a color so some nice little
facilities there to make pallet
manipulation a little bit easier and
then of course you can ask a display
whether you can set the pallet for that
display and then you can actually set it
if it says you can some displays may not
support palettes at all for Gama there's
a few API is here for setting the
transfer functions and there's two ways
to do it in this API either by a formula
which is how
a few parameters or by a table the
values so if you happen to have your
whole gamma specified in a table you can
very easily call set display transfer by
table we also have a convenience
function to do it with bytes so you can
either use bytes or floats you can also
get the transfer back and you can do it
by formula as well with these safety
eyes we've got a quick little demo here
this one has not been posted yet but it
should be soon after and this is
actually a direct port of an old sample
called Mac gamma some of you may have
seen that demo before it just runs
through and starts using those API is to
mess with the gamma it's a good demo
install it on your friends machine and
then hide it and leave it running okay
so more slides so that's a little bit
about display management the basic
capabilities are there you can get the
different displays find out what modes
they support switch to modes
manipulate those many people like
palettes and gammas all of that facility
is there for you now if you already have
some quick dart code
you already do a lot of quick draw
drawing in your game but you want to
start adding a little bit of CD code to
your game how do you go about doing that
first of all we're going to talk about
if you've already got a quick-draw
report say you've used carbon create
your window you've got a window you can
get the window port now you want to draw
CG into that window there's some pretty
easy code to use to get the core
graphics context and start drawing one
thing you need to watch out for the
coordinate systems are a little
different
I'll talk about the differences in the
coordinate systems and what you need to
watch out for talk about some things
that are also a little different with
pixel addressing and then we'll get into
covering a little bit of clipping and
how clipping in core graphics differs
from quick-draw
so to create a CG context for a given
port very simple there's one call create
CGG context report you pass as a port
pointed to a context ref
couldn't be simpler do your cg drawing
don't forget to release the context that
you created when you're done but once
you've got that context how does a
coordinate system differ in quick-draw
as many of you probably where the
coordinate system the origin is in the
upper left hand corner positive X goes
right positive Y goes down well for
PostScript PDF and of course core
graphics which is based on the PDF
imaging model the origin is the bottom
left the positive y-axis points up
and unlike quick-draw where you're
pretty much always working with a port
you can always get the port wrecked find
out what the bounds are width and
Heights and everything core graphics
doesn't really have a concept of a
bounds of a context and that's partly
because it's supposed to be very device
independent but also because once you
start applying transforms and bangs it
gets a little weird how do you define a
rectangular bounds so pretty in
particularly when you're working with a
window context or if you create an
off-screen context which I'll talk about
in a little bit you know what the bounds
are already so you pretty much just have
to remember those who can't get them
directly from the context itself so if
the coordinates are different what can
you do about it well the easiest thing
is with a few simple calls and core
graphics you can actually change the
core graphics context coordinate system
to match that a quick draw and for
people that are used to thinking in nice
simple quick draw coordinates this is
probably the easiest way to go and as I
mentioned you need to remember the
bounds from the port or the view that
you got it from
so the first call to gsync context with
origin tgc context origin with port
excuse me that simply makes sure that if
you've called set origin in your port in
your quick report to move the origin
around this will sync up the cg context
origin with that change then you call
translate to move the origin from the
bottom left to the upper left and then
you call scale to flip the y-axis of the
positive Y points down so we got a
little bit of code to do just that in
this first part we create our context
again we call sink origin with port so
we've got our port in a context ref
then we translate by the port height and
it's positive port height because you're
positive in terms of core graphics
coordinate system right now and then
minus one on the y-axis for the scale we
leave the x-axis alone so that moves the
origin up and flips the y-axis down one
thing to note here and you'll probably
run into this the first time you go
through this I certainly hit it this
does make the coordinate systems match
and so you can start thinking in terms
of quick draw coordinates again but when
you start using CG to draw text the text
draws upside down because the text honor
is that translation matrix that we've
been manipulating there and as soon as
we scale it by -1 on the Y quarks is
okay I'll try to play down no problem
which is something you never could
really do in quick-draw it's one nice
feature so and you can also rotate text
too so that's also very nice I hope you
managed to get to some of the core
graphics sessions so the CTM thing I
mentioned it on this previous slide you
see translate CTM scale CTM what is that
thing that's the current transform
matrix and you can do a number of fun
things with that you can do basic
translations you can do scales as we've
already seen you can also do rotations
which is very nice and you can do SKUs
which are pretty much just arbitrary
affine transforms so what are those
primitives look like when you actually
use them again we get our context then
scale is simply you take a scale on the
X and a scale on the y axis and those
are floating-point numbers so you can
scale by fractional scales as you saw
before one pretty much means don't
change that axis minus 1 means flip it
upside down or left/right translate much
the same you take a translate on the X
and a translate on the Y moves your
origin around rotation again very simple
very straight forward angle in radians
that rotates the CG context around at
the current origin and then if you
define an affine transform you can just
concatenate that with the current
transform so this is where you start
getting into SKUs and other things so
what does that all look like
wrote a simple little app here to show
you what you can do with transforms oh
yeah that's right
have to tell it picture globe so here we
have a little rocket ship
courtesy of Jeff Stahl and as you can
see down here this is just calling draw
graphic I have a little routine that
draws graphic at the origin doesn't do
anything exciting but using scaling over
here using translation oh and these are
all rotated a little bit so it's a
little more interesting you can do some
basic scaling and translation and then
this confined mostly rotation and
translation good little rocket ship to
fly around in a figure 8 and in each of
these cases I'm simply manipulating the
transform matrix tweaking it a little
bit doing a translation doing a rotation
and then calling that one function and
that function never changes to draw the
graphic so as far as its concerned it's
always drawing the rocket at the origin
and it's always drawing it on the
straight up the y-axis it doesn't have
to care the transform matrix and all the
CG operations take care of manipulating
the pixels make things a little more
interesting
and this sample code will be posting
pretty soon after WWC as well alright
so as I mentioned in the beginning pixel
addressing is a little bit different
because core graphic context who try to
abstract out away from the device some
context and don't have the concept of a
pixel really if you're printing you can
sometimes get to the pixel sometimes not
depending on if you're going to a
postscript or raster printer if you're
actually going to a PDF file for example
you know they make a big deal out of
being able to write out PDF files from
just about anything you can actually
have a context that represents a PDF
document and you can draw a seating and
draw a CG context calls into that
context and it goes out into the PDF
file well there's no pixels that you can
get to behind that context so if you
want to be able to say do some CG
drawing and then get at the bits after
that what do you do well there's a thing
called CG bitmap context create that as
you might imagine creates a bitmap
context and you get to specify all of
the parameters for this bitmap you can
say what the data pointer is to
initialize it with some data or you can
pass no and it'll allocate the data
blank for you you pass it with and hide
the bits per component the color space
you define essentially how each pixel is
represented and this gives you a bitmap
that you can then use CG calls and draw
into but you can also get to the bits
directly so this is what it looks like
did your bitmap context create instead
of just doing the crate for the port we
do a bitmap context pass it in your
initialization data a width and height
bits per component to Co space then
alpha info tells it whether there's an
alpha at the beginning and alpha at the
end no alpha at all those kinds of
things and at this point you can just
proceed with your normal core graphics
operations just like it's any other
context or as I mentioned you can access
the bits because you still know where
the data pointer is you still know where
the bits are so you can go both ways
there now I mentioned that clipping was
also different when you use that code
that I've showed you before to go from a
port to a CG context
there are some things that the context
doesn't inherit in fact it inherits a
very little of the quick-draw State
clipping is one of them if you're using
clip regions in your quick-draw port and
you create a CG context and you start
drawing with CG drawing commands it's
going to draw all over everything it's
going to ignore the quick-draw clip
region so what do we do about that
well this straightforward way you grab
the clip region from the sea graph port
and then you call this new call clip CG
context a region and that simply takes
the region you give it from quick-draw
and actually turns that into a CG clip
path this was a little bit more
complicated so again we create our port
and now we want to make the clip match
this is an important step that new
region when I tried to do this demo the
first time I forgot that and it didn't
work very well let's just leave it at
that so you create a new region an empty
region you also need the bounds and then
you get the port clip region and you
clip the CG context to region so a
couple of simple steps and then you're
also you're done with the region so you
can dispose up at that point
and at this point your CG context clip
path matches the region that you had and
quick-draw so let's do a quick little
demo of that one
same little rocketship it's into the
same demo except in this case before I
started I set a clip or set the clip
reagent and quick-draw to a couple of
ovals kind of ex-ored together and of
course quick-draw would honor that by
default but once you create the context
and start drawing these cg context
images into that they're not going to
honor it
so you use this code that I've shown you
pass in this clip region to CG and it
turns it into a clip path and just does
the right thing and incidentally it also
Clips because I clip before the the
erase of the back buffer to black so it
Clips ID as well
okay
so there are a few things about
quick-draw on 10 they're a little
different than online
one interesting thing you need to be a
little bit of wary of this crate Newport
which you use create a new graph board
at the moment the pointer points to the
screen and some people have already been
using that to start drawing directly to
the screen not a good plan it may or may
not always point to the screen don't
count on that that's kind of
undocumented behavior and you shouldn't
really rely on that another thing to
note is that in the past especially for
things where you were using copy mask or
seed and fill and things like that you
needed a graph port and you need
essentially one bit buffer to hold the
mask you used open port and create port
or a new port excuse me well those have
been replaced by create new port but
create new port can't create black and
white craft boards it only creates sea
graph ports and so if you're going to
actually be using those routines and
you're porting your code to carbon you
need to be aware of that and instead you
can actually use yugi world and create a
1-bit deep g world all of the API is
that were designed originally to use
graph ports are now aware of this and
they will actually take one bit deep G
world
another thing that's different about
quick-draw is because of the double
buffered Windows and Mac os10
you need this little thing called QD
flush port buffer and for the most part
you may or may not run into this
depending on how you do your event loop
but if you're used to not calling wit
next event you know your game likes to
take over the whole machine and you
start doing quick draw drawing in a loop
you may find that your animation never
appears on the screen and you scratch
your head for a while well it turns out
if you're not calling wait next event
which is when an implicit flush of the
back buffer occurs you need to call QD
flush port buffer and that will actually
tell the window system to flush the back
buffer to the screen and so if you're in
a tight little loop doing some animation
or whatever you need to call that
another I guess bonus of QD flush port
buffer is when it comes to VBL synching
I'll talk about this in a little bit but
QD flush port buffers also VBL synched
where it's possible it's not possible
so that leads us directly into tear-free
bleeding a good goal and for most of you
out there we've got you covered
open geo itself can sink to the BBL and
in fact that's one of the best ways to
do it because it's the card itself doing
the BBL sinking and there's one quick
call AGL set integer on the context
except the swap interval to one and that
will take care of telling up a GL that
you'd really like it - only swap one the
vertical blank so for all of you
fullscreen open GL apps out there there
you go now for those of you that are
doing windowed apps you can use the back
buffer this is also an important point
we already provide a back buffer so if
you're doing your own double buffering
system you're going to be triple
buffering and that'll be a big
performance hit on Mac OS 10 so you
might want to take a look and use our
back buffer instead of your own off
screen so use our back buffer and also
when you flush the back buffer for the
window to the screen using QD flush port
buffer or if you're using the cg context
there's a cg context flush that's
essentially the same thing we flush that
sink to the BBL for you when it's
actually supported by the hardware on
the machine so you can use that to get
good tear free bleeding so along the
lines of tear free bleeding some other
things to watch out for since Mac OS 10
is a fully pre-emptive OS you don't
always have control of the whole machine
you'd always have control of when you
get swapped in and out so if you try to
do direct screen access which you can do
with the cg directors play API it's
gonna be very hard to sync to the BBL
because the scheduler is always trying
to balance things and swap things in and
out to make sure everybody has time you
may be halfway through drawing to the
screen and get swapped out so way things
go so that makes it very difficult so if
possible let let us do the video syncing
for you we've got the best chance of
making it happen on the given hardware
and we can do it
easily so use the a geo set integer or
use the actual flushing of window
buffers let us do the sinking for you
it's got a couple of quick demos of this
give you a peek at what no VBL sinking
looks like it actually tears pretty bad
on my machine here that tears every now
and then let's see if it'll do it for us
it's actually not bad
Figgy so demo works better than its
supposed to
oh wait nice alright there it goes
that's better
no respect that's what tearing looks
like for those of you that have never
seen VBA tearing so now if we actually
use the QD flush port buffer we can sing
to the BBL right not exactly and that's
one of the things I was initially very
disappointed that this demo didn't work
when I got here because I had this all
planned gone to the work to make it sink
very nicely made sure that we could get
nice smooth animation no tearing good in
the demo room it doesn't work great what
am I gonna do well it turns out this
brings up a very interesting point you
can't always sink to the BBL no matter
how much you want to some hardware it's
just not possible in this case there's
who knows what kind of video switching
equipment and everything else between
the computer and the display so you may
not even be able to find out what the
refresh rate is or anything so it's
amazing it works as well as it does
there's also in general hardware is
moving in the direction of not having a
concept of a vertical blank anyway on
some high-speed display or digital
displays there's no real concept of a
beam position anyway it's there's
nothing to sync to now some displays the
vertical blank is essentially very very
tiny or non-existent
and be aware that no matter how much you
want to sink to the VBL no matter how
much you want the demo to work it may
not ah so let's talk a little bit about
a few OpenGL changes many of you are
using OpenGL got some great games out
there using OpenGL OpenGL and Mac OS 10
rocks good performance but there are a
few differences and you need to be aware
of and we'll also talk a little bit
about how it's different with respect to
using it with draw sprocket on Mac OS 9
there were some things you had to do
when you wanted to use opengl fullscreen
withdraw sprocket and that's a little
bit different now so a few important
differences Ajo fullscreen works that's
a big one
in the past on Mac OS 9 Ajo fullscreen
wasn't there on Mac OS 10 you can call a
GL fullscreen I believe you can pass it
even the resolution you want the bit
depth and it does all the work for you
very good way to get into full screen
mode and OpenGL a hurry OpenGL does all
the heavy lifting for you we've also
added a few new features we have support
percent stencil buffers and aux buffers
I'd like to point out stencil buffers in
particular there's an OpenGL talk coming
up Thursday morning I believe an
advanced rendering techniques and in
that one
Troy Dawson will be talking about how to
do dynamic shadows with stencil buffers
so that's pretty cool he's also got a
few other cool demos in there as well so
that's a good talk to go to and I'll
point you to that once we get to the end
of the talk and then there's some new
extensions we've support packed pixels
now and a few other good things so for
more information on those things go to
the opengl sessions and they'll give you
some more information another thing to
note is OpenGL is fully supported you
can call it from carbon and cocoa from
carbon you can use all the AGL api's
from cocoa there's actually some very
good classes for NS OpenGL there's NS
OpenGL View which makes it very easy to
bring an open
view into your window and get all the
information set up for OpenGL and then
start making OpenGL calls a few more
differences Ajo update context is more
critical you need to call it when you
make changes to the contexts that OpenGL
knows what's going on and I think in
some cases you could get away with not
calling it everywhere on Mac OS 9 but on
10 it's much more critical you need to
call it and also HL set drawable a
number of people could get away with
calling a geo set drawable just passing
in the window pointer because on Mac OS
9 window Porter was pretty much the same
as I see grep pointer well Mac OS 10
they're not the same thing and if you've
got a window ref on Mac OS 10 from a
carbon window you need to make sure you
call get window port and pass that port
to set drawable
otherwise it's not going to do what you
expect
so how do we make this play with draw
sprocket well a mac os9
when you wanted to be able to get
hardware acceleration multiple monitors
to be able to support all those things
typically what you would do is you would
create a window on top of draw sprocket
as I mentioned earlier just create a
full screen window others black nobody
would know the difference and you'd
actually pass that off to set drawable
and that would make sure took care of
multiple monitors hardware acceleration
all the good things on that goes 10 you
don't need to do that anymore
and in fact you can't because once
you've taken over the screen with draw
sprocket
it's the topmost window so you can't put
a window up on top of it so what you
need to do now is call this DSP context
to get front buffer and that will return
you a see graph pointer and that's the
graph pointer you can actually pass to a
jail set drawable so that'll get you
OpenGL draw sprocket everything now one
thing to note since a Gio full screen
works you may or may not have to do this
anymore
you should revisit your code and see if
you really need to do use draw sprocket
anymore so a quick summary before we get
into more discussion of the road map use
draw sprocket or CG direct display
they're great the api's are there for
you to manipulate the displays capture
the displays as I mentioned CG direct
display takes care of making sure that
your finder icons don't move around on
you when you change resolutions and
those kinds of things also if you've
gotten quick-draw drawing that you're
already doing you can start mixing in
some poor graphics so for some of the
games that you know don't take over the
screen just do OpenGL you can start
mixing in some core graphics to do some
nice arcs and antialiased drawing and
antialiased text and the nice current
transform matrix manipulations another
important thing to take out of here is
Mac os10 double buffer so you don't have
to so if you're already doing a bunch of
work to double buffer your drawing we've
got that covered for you every Windows
double buffered when you draw into the
window port you're actually drawing into
the back buffer which also means don't
forget to call flush make sure you call
CG flush port buffer or if your drawing
and a quick draw make sure you call
cutie flush port buffer also watch out
for some of those minor quick draw
changes did I mentioned before and
OpenGL and Mac OS 10 it's there it works
at rocks use it so let's take a look at
all of the games related sessions that
are coming up this week we're already
into Tuesday afternoon but there's a few
other sessions on that 17th session
track that I'm not gonna call out I'm
just gonna hit some of the highlights
here OpenGL for very good OpenGL talks
coming up tomorrow afternoon and
Thursday morning you might want to look
into those high performance 2d it's
going to show you how to do some multi
texturing of large images and scrolling
of images and things for 2d with the
techniques that Jeff's going to present
you could put together a really cool
side scroller actually scroll all over
the place in both directions right after
that in the same room we're gonna cover
a geometry and modeling Todd is going to
take you through how to go a little bit
beyond that little spinning square demo
that we have in a lot of our sample apps
to some more advanced modeling and
animation then Friday morning right now
Thursday morning excuse me
John Stauffer is going to cover some
optimization techniques and how to get
more performance out of your OpenGL code
and how to speed things up and also talk
about some other interesting aspects of
OpenGL performance and then right after
that Thursday morning we have advanced
rendering as I mentioned we're going to
cover some stencil buffer techniques
also going to cover bump mapping and
cubic environment mapping and I forget
what the fourth one is but good stuff
all four of those are good if you have
some feedback for us as far as OpenGL
goes and the work we're doing Thursday
at 5:00 come to the feedback forum make
sure you come and give us your feedback
but wait there's more so input for games
Friday at 10:30 the morning just going
to be talking about input for games as
many of you know input sprocket is not
on Mac OS 10 but we're gonna be talking
about hidden
which is the input sprocket replacement
and then following that afternoon we're
gonna cover sound and networking so
we'll be talking a little bit about the
carbon sound manager about QuickTime
also some about core audio and some
things you can do with it
and then get into some open transport
open play things like that and another
feedback forum Friday at 5:00 if you
have some feedback for us as far as
games related technologies and things
like that please come to the feedback
session Friday at 5:00 and so who to
contact if you have contact information
we will have questions send it to DTS at
apple.com we'll be glad to help you out
you